# Bird's Eye View

[comment]: #TODO Maybe a flow chart or schematic of how it works?
## 4 parts of the code
### R frontend: 
All the functions that are expected. They are listed in the Reference page of the documentation

The docs need to be expanded for the functions. 
View-> Go to File/Function can locate where a function is.

```devtools::documention()``` will update the namespace and documentation. Then run ```pkgdown::build_reference()```

### C++ backend:
The C++ backend is linked to the R code with Rcpp. Searching for the underlying C++ function will get you to the function code. 

### JS viewer:

### shiny app:

# Code Map:
## R:
The R backend functions. 

Documentation is based on ```roxygen``` and is placed above the function.


## docs:
Contains the website documention and Github Pages builds from here. This is automatically built by pkgdown, so do not edit it. Edit vignettes instead.

## inst:

## man:
Generated by ```roxygen2``` for all the package documentation. No need to edit these files by hand.

## pkgdown:

## src:
All the C++ uncompiled code for the C++ backend functions.

```Racmacs_types``` contains all the linker code for the back-and-forth between R and C++.

To have cpp functions exported to R, include ```//[[Rcpp::export]]``` on the line above the function.

## test:
Contains all the tests and test data. Uses ```testthat``` library for testing. All files start with ```test-```. Run all tests by ```shift+CMD+T``` or from the menu.

```devtools:::test_file()``` to run a specific test file.

## vignettes:
Where the long form articles are stored. New vignettes can be added and editted. 

```usethis::use_vignette()``` can be used to build from the template of the articles. You can use ```knit this to vignette`` to preview the page.

```pkgdown::build_article``` then needs to be run to build the page for the website

```pkgdown::build_articles_index``` then needs to be run to update the website to include the new pages

OR ```pkgdown::build_site``` will rebuild it all




# Dev cycle/Dev notes.
Have Racmacs.Rproj open, you may want some functions:
```devtools::install()``` to install locally then Restart R to have the new version available to use.  
```devtools::load_all()``` will "quickly" load the updated package and all the functions including internal functions.

You can use ```CMD+mouse1``` to get to a function definition.

Don't know C++? Try out w3schools.com .

```Armadillo``` is a C++ wrapper for R.

Racmacs is completely locally run.


To install multiple versions:  
[comment:] I did not fully catch this, sorry.


# Style guide
Functions are camelCase.  
Linting is done with ```lintr```.

Try use the tidyverse style guide, with the exception (maybe) of how function parameters are placed.
